Monorepo: Beta 1 Releases (#1957)
ethereumjs/ethereumjs-monorepo: packages/blockchain/CHANGELOG.md

The following getters and/or methods have been removed:

- `get meta()`
- `getHead()` (use `getIteratorHead()` instead)
- `setHead()` (use `setIteratorHead()` instead)

### Consensus Encapsulation

Consensus-related functionality in the `Blockchain` package has been reworked and taken out of the main `Blockchain` class, see PR [#1756](https://github.com/ethereumjs/ethereumjs-monorepo/issues/1756).

There is now a dedicated consensus class for each type of supported consensus, `Ethash`, `Clique` and `Casper` (PoS, this one is rather the do-nothing part of `Casper` and letting the respective consensus/beacon client do the hard work! 🙂). Each consensus class adheres to a common interface `Consensus` implementing the following five methods in a consensus-specific way:

- `genesisInit(genesisBlock: Block): Promise<void>`
- `setup(): Promise<void>`
- `validateConsensus(block: Block): Promise<void>`
- `validateDifficulty(header: BlockHeader): Promise<void>`
- `newBlock(block: Block, commonAncestor?: BlockHeader, ancientHeaders?: BlockHeader[]): Promise<void>`

> There is now a new `Blockchain` option `consensus`. This makes it very easy to pass in a modified version of an existing consensus implementation or do something totally different and write an own consensus class with consensus rules to follow.

Reviewer: Are we going to pursue this?  Wouldn't we also need to support "something totally different" in `common` as well in order to allow for completely custom consensus logic?

Author: The one thing missing here is the possibility to customize the consensus code in the VM (so: to e.g. pay the miner after block execution), but we can add this later on if there is some demand, I think we even have an issue open for that. This should be non-breaking.

### Added Genesis Functionality

PRs [#1916](https://github.com/ethereumjs/ethereumjs-monorepo/pull/1916) and - as some follow-up work - [#1924](https://github.com/ethereumjs/ethereumjs-monorepo/pull/1924) rework the genesis code throughout the EthereumJS library stack, with benefits on the bundle size of the lower level libraries (like `Block` or `Transaction`).

> In return the `Blockchain` class has gotten now respective responsibilities. Genesis state and block functionality previously in the `@ethereumjs/common` class has been integrated here, see PR [#1916](https://github.com/ethereumjs/ethereumjs-monorepo/pull/1916).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In return the `Blockchain` class has gotten now respective responsibilities. Genesis state and block functionality previously in the `@ethereumjs/common` class have been integrated here, see PR [#1916](https://github.com/ethereumjs/ethereumjs-monorepo/pull/1916).
```

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure I understand this sentence:
'In return the `Blockchain` class has gotten now respective responsibilities.'
Would it be possible to clarify?

Author: Will add some clarification.

Have submitted the other change suggestions, thanks for the review! 🙂

A genesis state can now be set along `Blockchain` creation by passing in a custom `genesisBlock` and `genesisState`.  For `mainnet` and the official test networks like `sepolia` or `goerli` genesis is already provided with the block data still coming from `@ethereumjs/common` and the genesis state now being integrated into the `Blockchain` library directly.

The genesis block from the initialized `Blockchain` can be retrieved via the new `Blockchain.genesisBlock` getter. For creating a genesis block from the params in `@ethereumjs/common`, the new `createGenesisBlock(stateRoot: Buffer): Block` method can be used.

Note that this is a very large refactoring with mainly the lower-level libraries benefitting. If you miss some functionality here let us know, we are happy to discuss!

### Added Validation Methods

> The Blockchain class has also gotten new validation methods previously located in the `Block` library (and there demanding for a `Blockchain` to be passed in as a method parameter), see PR [#1959](https://github.com/ethereumjs/ethereumjs-monorepo/pull/1959).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Blockchain class has also gotten new validation methods previously located in the `Block` library (where they required a `Blockchain` to be passed in as a method parameter), see PR [#1959](https://github.com/ethereumjs/ethereumjs-monorepo/pull/1959).
```

The file structure of the package has been reworked and aligned with other libraries, see PR [#1986](https://github.com/ethereumjs/ethereumjs-monorepo/pull/1986). There is now a dedicated `blockchain.ts` file for the main source code. The `index.ts` is now re-exporting the `Blockchain` class and `Consensus` implementations as well as the `BlockchainInterface` interface, the `BlockchainOptions` dictionary and types from a dedicated `types.ts` file.

### Level DB Upgrade / Browser Compatibility

The internal Level DB code has been reworked to now be based and work with the latest Level [v8.0.0](https://github.com/Level/level/releases/tag/v8.0.0) major Level DB release, see PR [#1949](https://github.com/ethereumjs/ethereumjs-monorepo/pull/1949). This allows to use ES6-style `import` syntax to import the `Level` instance and allows for better typing when working with Level DB.

> Because the usage of `level` and `memory-level` there are now 3 different possible instances of `abstract-level`, all with a consistent interface due to `abstract-level`. These instances are `classic-level`, `browser-level` and `memory-level`. This now makes it a lot easier to use the package in browsers without polyfills for `level`. For some context it is worth to mention that the `level` package itself is starting with the v8 release just a proxy for these other packages and has no functionality itself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because the usage of `level` and `memory-level` there are now 3 different possible instances of `abstract-level`, all with a consistent interface due to `abstract-level`. These instances are `classic-level`, `browser-level` and `memory-level`. This now makes it a lot easier to use the package in browsers without polyfills for `level`. For some context it is worth to mention that starting with the v8 release, the `level` package is just a proxy for these other packages and has no functionality itself.
```
